easylogger
==========

`easylogger` is a very simple C++ logging framework, designed to be "good
enough" for most people.  If it doesn't suit a particular application's
needs, the application should try a more featureful logging framework, such
as [log4cxx](http://logging.apache.org/log4cxx/index.html).

installation
------------

`easylogger` is distributed as a single header file, `easylogger.h`.  No
other libraries or packages need to be installed to use `easylogger`.  A
fairly complete STL implementation is required, however, along with a
standards compliant C++ compiler.

usage
-----

All classes reside in the `easylogger` namespace.

There is only one primary class that the user must be aware of, which is
the `Logger` class.  Objects of `Logger` are used along with a set of
macros to perform all logging.

To create a new log, create a `Logger` object with a log name.

	easylogger::Logger NETWORK("NETWORK");

You can then write message to the `NETWORK` log using one of `LOG_TRACE`,
`LOG_DEBUG`, `LOG_INFO`, `LOG_WARNING`, `LOG_ERROR`, or `LOG_FATAL`.

	LOG_TRACE(NETWORK, "Trace message to NETWORK log");
	LOG_WARNING(NETWORK, "Warning message to NETWORK log");

You can inherit logs from each other, creating a hierarchy.  Pass the parent
log as the second argument to the `Logger` constructor.

	easylogger::Logger CONNECT("NETWORK.CONNECT", NETWORK);

	LOG_INFO(CONNECT, "Connection received");

Inherited logs will cause all messages to be sent to the parent log.  This
is useful for classification of logs, as well as allowing some logs to be
directed to alternative output streams.

A `Logger` instance with no parent by default will log all messages to
`std::cerr`.  `Logger` instances with a parent have no associated stream by
default.

You can set the associated stream on a `Logger` instance using the
`Logger::Stream(std::ostream&)` method.  Any `std::ostream` derivative is
acceptable.

	std::ofstream network_log("network.log");
	NETWORK.Stream(network_log);

	std::ofstream connect_log("connect.log");
	CONNECT.Stream(connect_log);

With the above example, all network log messages will be written to
`network.log`.  Additionally, any logs on the `CONNECT` log will also be
written to `connect.log`.

Each log has a minimum log level.  Only messages of that level or higher
will be processed.  The default log level is INFO.  This can be changed
by using the `Logger::Level(LogLevel)` method, giving it one of
`LEVEL_TRACE`, `LEVEL_DEBUG`, `LEVEL_INFO`, `LEVEL_WARNING`, `LEVEL_ERROR`,
or `LEVEL_FATAL`.

	NETWORK.Level(easylogger::LEVEL_DEBUG);

Logging any message with the level FATAL will cause the application to
abort immediately via `std::abort()`.

Finally, there is a set of assertion macros that can be used for checking
invariants.

	easylogger::Logger MAIN("MAIN");

	EASY_ASSERT(MAIN, param > 42, "param must be more than 42");
	ASSERT_EQ(MAIN, left, right, "left must be equal to right");
	ASSERT_NE(MAIN, left, right, "left must not equal right");
	ASSERT_TRUE(MAIN, param, "param must be true");
	ASSERT_FALSE(MAIN, param, "param must be false");
